# CTF-Creator

The Capture-The-Flag (CTF)-Creator is a Python-based project designed to automate the setup of CTF environments by managing Docker containers, networking, and security configurations. It simplifies the process of provisioning resources for multiple users, ensuring each participant has a dedicated and secure environment tailored to specific CTF requirements, as well as creating OpenVPN configuration files for secure connections to the CTF environment. 

By integrating with Docker, SSH, and networking tools, the system automates the creation of isolated environments that include the necessary Docker containers responsible for the CTF setup. Once participants are connected to their respective environments, they can engage in challenges, exercises, or simulations typical of CTF competitions. This automation not only saves time but also enhances the scalability and consistency of CTF environments across different hosts and setups.

## Folders and Files

The project consists of three folders:
1. **src**: Where all relevant files and scripts are:
    - `ctf_main.py` : Contains the main function.
    - `docker_functions.py`
    - `pyyaml_functions.py'`
    - `hosts_functions.py`
    - `ovpn_helper_functions.py`
    - `pyyaml_functions.py`
    - `readme_functions.py`
    - `validation_functions.py`
    - `example.yaml` : YAML Configuration file

2. **tests**: Contains several `pyyaml` tests to verify the functionalities of the CTF-creator.
3. **example_generated_data**: This folder provides examples of the user data generated by the CTF-Creator to connect to the CTF environment. Each user has their own folder named user_user_name, which contains:

   - `client.ovpn`: An OVPN configuration file for connecting to the secure CTF environment.
   - `README.md`: Explains how to use the client.ovpn file.
   - `dockovpn_data.tar`: Backup data for the OpenVPN server.

# Getting Started

## Installation Instructions

Python 3 and several Python libraries need to be installed. They can be installed with
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

**Recommendation**: Before running `ctf_main.py`, create a Python virtual environment:
```bash
python3 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
```
## Requirements 
### Input requirements
Provide a YAML configuration file with the following arguments:

    -     `name`: Name of the YAML configuration (e.g., my_config).
    -     `containers`: Docker containers deployed for each user in a specific subnet isolated from other users (e.g., nginx:latest).
    -     `users`: List of users of the CTF environment created by the CTF-Creator.
    -     `identityFile`: Path to the private SSH keys for host logins.
    -     `hosts`: Hosts where the Docker containers for the CTF environment are running. Entries should start with the host username, followed by @, and then the IP address of the host (e.g., ubuntu@10.20.30.101).
    -     `subnet_first_part`: First segment of the subnet IP address (e.g., 10 in 10.xx.xx.xx/24).
    -     `subnet_second_part`: Second segment of the subnet IP address. (e.g., 13 in xx.13.xx.xx/24).
    -     `subnet_third_part`: Third segment of the subnet IP address (e.g., 0 in xx.xx.0.xx/24).
   
    An example YAML config file named test.yaml is available in the src directory to illustrate the required structure.
Provide a **save path** where user data will be saved or is already saved:

Sufficient memory space and the necessary system permissions are required to save the configuration files for each CTF environment user on the system running the CTF-Creator. The amount of space needed will depend on the number of users in the CTF environment, with an estimated space requirement of 140 KB per user.

### Requirements for the remote hosts that are specified in the YAML configuration 
**The hosts need to be capable of spawning Docker containers. For that please follow the instructions**: 
1. You need to install [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/)
2. You need to configure [remote access Docker daemon](https://docs.docker.com/engine/daemon/remote-access/)
3. You need to be able to use Docker without privilaged Access run follwoing comand in the terminal of the remote hosts ```
sudo usermod -aG docker $(whoami) && newgrp docker  ```      

The hosts need to support SSH connections using asymmetric public and private keys for secure remote access.

## Usage

```bash
python3 src/ctf-main.py
```

Provide the location of your YAML configuration file and where you want to store the created data for the connection to the CTF environment on your device.

Due to the use of an SSH agent for the Connection to the hosts, you will also be prompted to enter your terminal password.

### Use Cases

1. Fresh set up: Creating the Environment Without Reusing OVPN Data
2. Reusing Existing OVPN Configurations Without Adding New Users: 
3. Reusing Existing OVPN Configurations While Adding New Users
4. Reusing Data While Modifying Hosts

For use case 1 specify a save path with no existing data created by the CTF-Creator.
For the use cases 2-4 specify a save path where user data already exists.

For every use case, the list of deploying Docker containers can be changed. 

For any other use case scenario please start a fresh set up.

## Testing
To run all tests at once you can run this command in the terminal in the main folder `ctf-creator/`:
```bash
python3 -m pytest -v 
```

## Features

#### Main Function Overview

The main function of the CTF-Creator tool, located in src/ctf_main.py, serves as the core component responsible for setting up the entire CTF environment. It reads configurations from a YAML file, connects to specified hosts via SSH, and deploys Docker containers and networks uniformly across all hosts according to the provided specifications, utilizing various helper functions and external libraries such as Docker SDK, PyYAML, and Click. 

Key Functionalities:

        1.    YAML Configuration Parsing
        2.    SSH Connection Initialization
        3.    Host Reachability and SSH Connectivity Check
        4.    Cleanup of Existing Docker Containers and Networks
        5.    Subnet Calculation and Network Setup
        6.    OpenVPN Server Setup
        7.    OpenVPN Configuration Management
        8.    Docker Container Deployment
        9.   Documentation and Output Generation
        10.   Error Handling and Logging
        
## Credits

This is the CTF-Creator programmed by Nick Nötzel under the supervision of Stefan Machmeier.

## License
[EUPL](https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/sites/default/files/custom-page/attachment/2020-03/EUPL-1.2%20EN.txt)

